node-tips.html.md, before:

---
title: Tips for Node.js Applications
---

_This page assumes that you are using cf v6._

This page will prepare you to deploy Node.js apps via the [Getting Started Guide](../devguide/deploy-apps/deploy-app.html).

## <a id='packagejson'></a> Application Package File ##

Cloud Foundry expects a `package.json` in your Node.js application.
You can specify the version of Node.js you want to use in the `engine` node of
your `package.json` file.
As of July, 2013, Cloud Foundry uses 0.10.x as the default.

Example `package.json` file:

~~~JSON
{
  "name": "default-nodejs-app",
  "version": "0.0.1",
  "author": "Your Name",
  "dependencies": {
    "express": "3.4.8",
    "consolidate": "0.10.0",
    "express": "3.4.8",
    "swig": "1.3.2",
  },
  "engines": {
    "node": "0.10.x",
    "npm": "1.3.x"
  }
}
~~~

## <a id='port'></a> Application Port ##

You need to use the VCAP\_APP\_PORT environment variable to determine which
port your application should listen on.
In order to also run your application locally, you may want to make port 3000
the default:

~~~javascript

app.listen(process.env.VCAP_APP_PORT || 3000);

~~~

## <a id='start'></a> Application Start Command ##

Node.js applications require a start command.
This start command is saved with other configuration settings in `manifest.yml`.

You will be asked if you want to save your configuration the first time you
deploy.
This will save a `manifest.yml` in your application with the settings you
entered during the initial push.
Edit the `manifest.yml` file and create a start command as follows:

~~~yaml
---
applications:
- name: my-app
  command: node my-app.js
... the rest of your settings ...
~~~

Alternately, specify the start command with `cf push -c`.

<pre class="termainl">
$ cf push my-app -c "node my-app.js"
</pre>

## <a id='nodemodules'></a> Application Bundling ##

You do not need to run `npm install` before deploying your application.
Cloud Foundry will run it for you when your application is pushed.
If you would prefer to run `npm install` and create a `node_modules` folder
inside of your application, this is also supported.

## <a id='discovery'></a> Solving Discovery Problems ##

If Cloud Foundry does not automatically detect that your application is a
Node.js application, you can override the auto-detection by specifying the
Node.js buildpack.

Add the buildpack into your `manifest.yml` and re-run `cf push` with your
manifest:

~~~yaml
---
applications:
- name: my-app
  buildpack: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/heroku-buildpack-nodejs.git
... the rest of your settings ...
~~~

Alternately, specify the buildpack on the command line with `cf push -b`:

<pre class="termainl">
$ cf push my-app -b https://github.com/cloudfoundry/heroku-buildpack-nodejs.git
</pre>

## <a id='services'></a> Binding Services ##

Refer to [Configure Service Connections for Node.js](./node-service-bindings.html).

## <a id='buildpack'></a> About the Node.js Buildpack ##

For information about using and extending the Node.js buildpack in Cloud
Foundry, see https://github.com/cloudfoundry/heroku-buildpack-nodejs.

The table below lists:

* **Resource** --- The software installed by the buildpack.
* **Available Versions** --- The versions of each software resource that are available from the buildpack.
* **Installed by Default** --- The version of each software resource that is installed by default.
* **To Install a Different Version** --- How to change the buildpack to install a different version of a software resource.

----------------------------

 **This page was last updated on August 2, 2013.**

| Resource | Available Versions | Installed by Default| To Install a Different Version
| --------- | --------- | --------- |---------
| Node.js | 0.10.0 - 0.10.6 <br> 0.10.8  - 0.10.12<br>0.8.0 - 0.8.8<br>0.8.10 - 0.8.14<br>0.8.19<br>0.8.21 -  0.8.25<br>0.6.3<br>0.6.5 - 0.6.8<br>0.6.10 - 0.6.18<br>0.6.20<br>0.4.10<br>0.4.7 | latest version of 0.10.x | To change the default version installed by the buildpack, see <br>“hacking” on https://github.com/cloudfoundry/heroku-buildpack-nodejs. <br><br>To specify the versions of Node.js and npm an application <br>requires, edit the application’s `package.json`, as described in “node.js and npm <br>versions” on https://github.com/cloudfoundry/heroku-buildpack-nodejs.
| npm | 1.3.2<br>1.2.30<br>1.2.21 - 1.2.28<br>1.2.18<br>1.2.14 - 1.2.15<br>1.2.12<br>1.2.10<br>1.1.65<br>1.1.49<br>1.1.40 - 1.1.41<br>1.1.39<br>1.1.35 - 1.1.36<br>1.1.32<br>1.1.9<br>1.1.4<br>1.1.1<br>1.0.10 | latest version of 1.2.x | as above

Commit message:

fix a sentence that referred to the wrong topic

node-tips.html.md, after:

---
title: Tips for Node.js Applications
---

_This page assumes that you are using cf v6._

This topic provides Node-specific information to supplement the general guidelines in the  [Deploy an Application](../devguide/deploy-apps/deploy-app.html) topic.

## <a id='packagejson'></a> Application Package File ##

Cloud Foundry expects a `package.json` in your Node.js application.
You can specify the version of Node.js you want to use in the `engine` node of
your `package.json` file.
As of July, 2013, Cloud Foundry uses 0.10.x as the default.

Example `package.json` file:

~~~JSON
{
  "name": "default-nodejs-app",
  "version": "0.0.1",
  "author": "Your Name",
  "dependencies": {
    "express": "3.4.8",
    "consolidate": "0.10.0",
    "express": "3.4.8",
    "swig": "1.3.2",
  },
  "engines": {
    "node": "0.10.x",
    "npm": "1.3.x"
  }
}
~~~

## <a id='port'></a> Application Port ##

You need to use the VCAP\_APP\_PORT environment variable to determine which
port your application should listen on.
In order to also run your application locally, you may want to make port 3000
the default:

~~~javascript

app.listen(process.env.VCAP_APP_PORT || 3000);

~~~

## <a id='start'></a> Application Start Command ##

Node.js applications require a start command.
This start command is saved with other configuration settings in `manifest.yml`.

You will be asked if you want to save your configuration the first time you
deploy.
This will save a `manifest.yml` in your application with the settings you
entered during the initial push.
Edit the `manifest.yml` file and create a start command as follows:

~~~yaml
---
applications:
- name: my-app
  command: node my-app.js
... the rest of your settings ...
~~~

Alternately, specify the start command with `cf push -c`.

<pre class="termainl">
$ cf push my-app -c "node my-app.js"
</pre>

## <a id='nodemodules'></a> Application Bundling ##

You do not need to run `npm install` before deploying your application.
Cloud Foundry will run it for you when your application is pushed.
If you would prefer to run `npm install` and create a `node_modules` folder
inside of your application, this is also supported.

## <a id='discovery'></a> Solving Discovery Problems ##

If Cloud Foundry does not automatically detect that your application is a
Node.js application, you can override the auto-detection by specifying the
Node.js buildpack.

Add the buildpack into your `manifest.yml` and re-run `cf push` with your
manifest:

~~~yaml
---
applications:
- name: my-app
  buildpack: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/heroku-buildpack-nodejs.git
... the rest of your settings ...
~~~

Alternately, specify the buildpack on the command line with `cf push -b`:

<pre class="termainl">
$ cf push my-app -b https://github.com/cloudfoundry/heroku-buildpack-nodejs.git
</pre>

## <a id='services'></a> Binding Services ##

Refer to [Configure Service Connections for Node.js](./node-service-bindings.html).

## <a id='buildpack'></a> About the Node.js Buildpack ##

For information about using and extending the Node.js buildpack in Cloud
Foundry, see https://github.com/cloudfoundry/heroku-buildpack-nodejs.

The table below lists:

* **Resource** --- The software installed by the buildpack.
* **Available Versions** --- The versions of each software resource that are available from the buildpack.
* **Installed by Default** --- The version of each software resource that is installed by default.
* **To Install a Different Version** --- How to change the buildpack to install a different version of a software resource.

----------------------------

 **This page was last updated on August 2, 2013.**

| Resource | Available Versions | Installed by Default| To Install a Different Version
| --------- | --------- | --------- |---------
| Node.js | 0.10.0 - 0.10.6 <br> 0.10.8  - 0.10.12<br>0.8.0 - 0.8.8<br>0.8.10 - 0.8.14<br>0.8.19<br>0.8.21 -  0.8.25<br>0.6.3<br>0.6.5 - 0.6.8<br>0.6.10 - 0.6.18<br>0.6.20<br>0.4.10<br>0.4.7 | latest version of 0.10.x | To change the default version installed by the buildpack, see <br>“hacking” on https://github.com/cloudfoundry/heroku-buildpack-nodejs. <br><br>To specify the versions of Node.js and npm an application <br>requires, edit the application’s `package.json`, as described in “node.js and npm <br>versions” on https://github.com/cloudfoundry/heroku-buildpack-nodejs.
| npm | 1.3.2<br>1.2.30<br>1.2.21 - 1.2.28<br>1.2.18<br>1.2.14 - 1.2.15<br>1.2.12<br>1.2.10<br>1.1.65<br>1.1.49<br>1.1.40 - 1.1.41<br>1.1.39<br>1.1.35 - 1.1.36<br>1.1.32<br>1.1.9<br>1.1.4<br>1.1.1<br>1.0.10 | latest version of 1.2.x | as above
